Add initial support for configurable file identity tracking (#18748)
elastic/beats: filebeat/docs/inputs/input-log.asciidoc

IMPORTANT: Make sure a file is not defined more than once across all inputs
because this can lead to unexpected behaviour.

[[file-identity]]

> ==== Reading files on network shares and cloud providers

Reviewer: Side note: if we want to double down on network share support, then we also need to improve the file reader to reset to an older offset if an `n` 0-byte sequence has been read and/or call Stat once we reach an already known file offset. e.g. the read would call 'Stat' to get the file size and only read up to `sz`. Once we reach `sz` we call `Stat` again to update `sz` and continue reading until the offset again reaches `sz`. The call to `Stat` and/or resetting to an older offset helps to workaround races in some network share protocols by forcing explicit file metadata updates.

Author: Follow up issue: https://github.com/elastic/beats/issues/19736

IMPORTANT: Make sure a file is not defined more than once across all inputs
because this can lead to unexpected behaviour.

[[file-identity]]
==== Reading files on network shares and cloud providers

:WARNING: Filebeat does not support reading from network shares and cloud providers.

However, one of the limitations of these data sources can be mitigated
if you configure Filebeat adequately.

By default, {beatname_uc} identifies files based on their inodes and
device IDs. However, on network shares and cloud providers these
values might change during the lifetime of the file. If this happens
{beatname_uc} thinks that file is new and resends the whole content
of the file. To solve this problem you can configure `file_identity` option. Possible

> values are besides the default `inode_deviceid` are `path` and `inode_marker`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
values besides the default `inode_deviceid` are `path` and `inode_marker`.
```

Selecting `path` instructs {beatname_uc} to identify files based on their
paths. This is a quick way to aviod rereading files if inode and device ids

> might change. However, keep in mind if the files are rotated (renamed), they
> are going to be reread and resent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
might change. However, keep in mind if the files are rotated (renamed), they
will be reread and resubmitted.
```
It's hard for me to explain what I don't like `resent`...

The option `inode_marker` can be used if the inodes stay the same even if
the device id is changed. You should choose this method if your files are
rotated instead of `path` if possible. You have to configure a marker file
readable by {beatname_uc} and set the path in the option `path` of `inode_marker`.

The content of this file must be unique to the device. You can put the
UUID of the device or mountpoint where the input is stored. The following
example oneliner generates a hidden marker file for the selected mountpoint `/logs`:

> Please note that you should not use this option on Windows.

Reviewer 2: Eh, this is really calling out an explanation for why not.

files. Also make sure your log rotation strategy prevents lost or duplicate
messages. For more information, see <<file-log-rotation>>.

> Furthermore, do not use `path` method for `file_identity` to avoid duplication
> of the rotated log messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, do not use the `path` method for `file_identity` to avoid duplication
of the rotated log messages.
```

this is the lazy change

> Furthermore, do not use `path` method for `file_identity` to avoid duplication
> of the rotated log messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, to avoid duplication of rotated log messages,
do not use `path` method for `file_identity` 
```
this is slightly nicer.

Better still would be to suggest how to exclude the rotated paths.
